Problem 1: Achieving Peace for Cats and Dogs Solution Explanation
Our solution for the first problem uses 6 semaphores called empty, waiting, cats_lock, dogs_lock, cats_max, and dogs_max and has 2 functions, one for cats and one for dogs. To ensure that there are only cats or dogs in the kitchen, we use a variable to count how many cats and dogs are called cats_in and dogs_in, which represents how many cats or dogs are waiting to drink water since we increment the counter variable each time a cat or dog comes to drink; to protect modifying the counter variable, we use the cats_lock/dogs_lock binary semaphore to protect this critical section. Additionally, after incrementing the counter variable, we check to see if the cat or dog is the first one of its kind to enter; if it is, then it waits on the empty semaphore to indicate whether or not the kitchen is occupied by the other species. This works since if, for example a cat is the first one of its kind to come to the kitchen and there aren't any dogs, it will take the empty semaphore, which prevents any new dogs to come to the kitchen but will still allow cats through since only the first cat will wait on the empty semaphore. Once cats or dogs are allowed through the check to see if the kitchen is occupied, they pend on another semaphore cats_max/dogs_max respectively, which controls the number of cats or dogs that are drinking in the kitchen. Only once a waterbowl is open in the kitchen does a cat or dog go and drink. Once the cat or dog has finished drinking, they again pend on the cats_lock/dogs_lock semaphore and decrement their corresponding counter variable; if they are the last cat or dog to finish drinking water/exit the kitchen, then they post to the empty semaphore, which signals to the other side that the kitchen is available to enter for drinking. 
In order to prevent starvation, we use the waiting semaphore to add another layer of queueing for the species waiting for the kitchen to be empty. At the beginning of the function for cats and dogs, the waiting semaphore is pended on regardless of species (acting like a waiting room separate from the kitchen), and is posted to once a species exits the waiting room to wait for the kitchen. This prevents starvation since this enforces the order at which cats and dogs enter the queue to drink water; for example, if there is a dog that is occupying the kitchen and a couple cats arrive, followed by several dogs, the cats will be able to take the waiting room first while the dogs wait outside the waiting room, and once the dog occupying the kitchen exits, the cats will be allowed to take the kitchen since the latter dogs are forced to enter the waiting room; only after the cats finish their turns are the latter dogs able to enter the kitchen, and thus the order continues. 